# Text-To-Speech-Automatic-Video-Generator
The process of completing a video:

1.	Loading up the client program
2.	Selecting a raw script to edit
3.	Pressing keep/skip for each comment within the video
4.	When estimated video time is acceptable click publish video.
5.	Amend the title to be as clickbait as possible
6.	Add in some additional tags to suit to the video topic
7.	Edit the generated thumbnail in the thumbnail folder location and then select it
8.	Edit the description if you wish
9.	Press “Send To Video Generator” and you will be notified when the script has been finished uploading to the server
10.	Done 


How can a Video Possibly Generated by a Program and still be watchable?

This recent trend in Reddit Text-To-Speech Videos consists (usually) of a very simple formula:

1.  A sentence of text is revealed.
2.  Text To Speech reads out said sentence.
3.  Once the Text To Speech is complete, the next sentence of text is revealed.
4.  Repeat till comment and its replies are done.
5.  Once a comment and all if its subsequent replies are finished play some kind of transition interval.
6.  Move onto next comment
7.  Repeat steps 1-6 till you have a 10 minute video.

A song is chosen at random. 
How it works
The project is comprised of three separate programs:


1.  YouTube Bot Server -> initserver.py
2.  YouTube Bot Video Generator Client -> youtubequeue.py
3.  YouTube Bot Client (Manual Review) -> client.py

<h2>YouTube Bot Server</h2>

This program houses the (1) socket server for connecting to the client(s) program and also the (2) socket server for connecting to the video generator client(s). Additionally, this program will also grab new scripts from Reddit every one hour, and will also update the existing ones that have not yet been edited.

(1)	This socket server will send raw scripts from the database to the manual review program (see below). It will then receive these reviewed scripts and update the database with the finalised scripts which will include a thumbnail, description and title. The server can handle multiple clients so multiple people can edit these scripts.

(2)	The video generator server is currently only designed to handle one video generator client. Original plans were for this server to handle multiple video generator clients spread out between multiple computers. However, I found that one computer was sufficient enough for all my video generation needs, so I decided to hard code it to only one client. The purpose of this server is to send finalised scripts from the database to the video generator client.

<h2>YouTube Bot Video Generator Client</h2>

This program will receive finalised video scripts from the YouTube Bot Video Generator Server which include thumbnails, descriptions, tags and a title. These scripts will be generated into a mp4 file and then uploaded to YouTube at a scheduled release time (currently randomly at 5pm, 6 pm, 7pm GMT - the recommended times to upload to YouTube). Once the script is received it will be generated then the program will wait till it has enough API credits to upload by checking when the last 6 videos were uploaded. 

Once a video is successfully uploaded its status is set to complete along with an upload time so that the program can check how many videos were uploaded within the day to avoid exceeding quota usage. 

**Text-To-Speech**
By far one of the most challenging aspects of the project was getting the Text to Speech to work properly. I wanted to use the Daniel MLG Soft Scan Text to Speech voice – the one found in most text to speech Reddit videos. I believed this was an important part of the project because this voice is very recognisable and is (in my opinion) one of the best sounding text to speeches available.
I use the command line version of Balabolka to generate the .wav files and these were then synced with different frames in the video generation program.

<h2>YouTube Bot Client</h2>

The client program is a Tinder-like swipe left and right process to filter out comments that are not to be included in the video. It also allows for the user to write the title and upload a thumbnail for the video as well as edit description and tags, although the title, description and tags are partially generated as follows:
Title: Be default is the post title
Description: By default is a generated template with the post title within it and a couple hashtags
Tags: Some base tags I got from popular text-to-speech channels such as r/askreddit,reddit,reddit funny etc.
All of these can be edited. A template for the thumbnail is partially generated as well. There are checks to make sure that the amount of characters are not exceeded for all of these fields e.g. title must be under 100 characters

The final content of the video includes the edited script, the thumbnail, tags, description and the video settings (it is possible to change certain features of the video generator template during the editing process such as background colour, text size, line widths etc. I usually kept the defaults so didn’t really have much use for it) which is then sent off to the server which in turn uploads it to the database as a BLOB.

**MySQL**

Storage of the scripts and they’re relevant information is done with a MySQL database. This is the first time I used a MySQL database for a project, I’m not brilliant at SQL I learned what was necessary to get things to work. I used three tables “users”, “videogenerators” and “scripts”<br>

**“users” table**<br>
Originally I had planned to create a extensive login system where users had editing statistics, see who’s online etc. Scrapped this and now its only use is for keeping track of which users are editing which videos to prevent the same video being edited and uploaded twice. Passwords are encrypted with MD5 on the client side

**“scripts” table**<br>
The most important table, holds all the script information. The status field is very important for keeping track of where a script should be.
<br>*-raw:* the script is available to edit
<br>*-editing:* the script is being edited and cannot be edited by any other users while in this state
<br>*-complete:* the script has been finished editing and will be sent to the video generator client 
<br>*-successupload:* the script has successfully been uploaded to YouTube.






